README.md, before:

# Log Analysis Tool for News Database

The Log Analysis project aims to simplify the process of answering the following
questions from the news database (provided).

1. What are the most popular three articles of all time?
2. Who are the most popular article authors of all time?
3. On which days did more than 1% of requests lead to errors?

## Required Setup

While the Log Analysis Tool is easy to use, there is a bit of setup
required to get going. Nothing too complicated though :)

1. <a href="https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads">Virtual Box (download here)</a> 
- "VirtualBox is a general-purpose full virtualizer for x86 hardware, targeted 
at server, desktop and embedded use."
- Translation: Think virtual computer.
VirtualBox gives you a virtual computer you can play with, break, and rebuild
without damaging your actual computer. Nifty!
- Instructions: Simply install the correct platform package for your Operating
System. Once installed, you don't even need to open it.

2. <a href="https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html">Vagrant (download here)</a>
- "Vagrant 
is a tool for building and managing virtual machine environments in a single 
workflow."
- Translation: Think helper for VirtualBox.
- Instructions: Simply install the correct version for your Operating System.
- Warning for Windows users: The Installer may ask you to grant network 
permissions to Vagrant or make a firewall exception. Be sure to allow this.
- Verify: To verify the installation setup, open your Terminal and type
`vagrant --version`. If successful, you will see your Vagrant version.

3. <a href="https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2017/August/59822701_fsnd-virtual-machine/fsnd-virtual-machine.zip">FSND-Virtual-Machine (download here)</a>
- What? You don't know how to setup VirtualBox and Vagrant? No worries, 
the good folks at Udacity have created one for you! Sweet!
- Even if you already know how to use VirtualBox and Vagrant, you still need
to download and use this Vagrant build. It is preconfigured wit necessary
applications, plugins, and databases required for this tool.
- Instructions: 
    1) Unzip the folder and (optionally) move it into the directory
you want it to live in (I use Documents).
    2) Use the terminal to cd into the directory `cd Documents/FSND-Virtual-Machine`
    3) Run the command `vagrant up` to start your Virtual Machine.
    4) Wait for a while :) -- this will take some time since it is installing 
    an entire computer on your computer. Think about that! (\**mind explodes**)
    5) Once completed, your shell will return the prompt you are used to
    seeing. From here, you can log in to your new computer by typing
    `vagrant ssh` into the shell.
    6) Run the command `cd /vagrant`

4. <a href="https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2016/August/57b5f748_newsdata/newsdata.zip">News Data SQL (download here)</a>
- This will download the newsdatabase.sql file, which will create the
database the program will run against. The database will be discuss more
below, but for now, let's just get it ready.
- Instructions: 
    1) After unzipping the the download, move newsdatabase.sql to your
    vagrant directory. Ex. Documents/FSND-Virtual-Machine/vagrant
    2) Run the command `psql -d news -f newsdata.sql`
- That's it. The database has been created and populated. Let's learn more!

## Running the Application

1. Start the application from the command line `python3 log_analysis.py`
2. The application will print a menu. Enter the number of the question you
would like to answer and press Enter.
3. The result output will display once the query completes! Easy :)
4. Press 0 and Enter to quit at any time.

## Advanced Usage

Note: This log analysis tools relies on a few Views. You can recreate, retool,
or refactor these views easily. Find the views created below.

1. `CREATE VIEW author_article AS SELECT name, slug FROM authors, articles 
WHERE authors.id = articles.author;`

2. `CREATE VIEW view_errors AS SELECT date_trunc('day', log.time) AS day, COUNT(*) 
FROM log WHERE status = '404 NOT FOUND' GROUP BY day;`

3. `CREATE VIEW view_total AS SELECT date_trunc('day', log.time) AS day, COUNT(*) 
FROM log GROUP BY day;`

4. `CREATE VIEW error_percentage AS SELECT view_total.day, 
(view_errors.count::decimal / view_total.count) * 100 AS percentage 
FROM view_total, view_errors WHERE view_total.day = view_errors.day;`

Commit message:

Add step concerning the creation of sql views

README.md, after:

# Log Analysis Tool for News Database

The Log Analysis project aims to simplify the process of answering the following
questions from the news database (provided).

1. What are the most popular three articles of all time?
2. Who are the most popular article authors of all time?
3. On which days did more than 1% of requests lead to errors?

## Required Setup

While the Log Analysis Tool is easy to use, there is a bit of setup
required to get going. Nothing too complicated though :)

1. <a href="https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads">Virtual Box (download here)</a> 
- "VirtualBox is a general-purpose full virtualizer for x86 hardware, targeted 
at server, desktop and embedded use."
- Translation: Think virtual computer.
VirtualBox gives you a virtual computer you can play with, break, and rebuild
without damaging your actual computer. Nifty!
- Instructions: Simply install the correct platform package for your Operating
System. Once installed, you don't even need to open it.

2. <a href="https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html">Vagrant (download here)</a>
- "Vagrant 
is a tool for building and managing virtual machine environments in a single 
workflow."
- Translation: Think helper for VirtualBox.
- Instructions: Simply install the correct version for your Operating System.
- Warning for Windows users: The Installer may ask you to grant network 
permissions to Vagrant or make a firewall exception. Be sure to allow this.
- Verify: To verify the installation setup, open your Terminal and type
`vagrant --version`. If successful, you will see your Vagrant version.

3. <a href="https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2017/August/59822701_fsnd-virtual-machine/fsnd-virtual-machine.zip">FSND-Virtual-Machine (download here)</a>
- What? You don't know how to setup VirtualBox and Vagrant? No worries, 
the good folks at Udacity have created one for you! Sweet!
- Even if you already know how to use VirtualBox and Vagrant, you still need
to download and use this Vagrant build. It is preconfigured wit necessary
applications, plugins, and databases required for this tool.
- Instructions: 
    1) Unzip the folder and (optionally) move it into the directory
you want it to live in (I use Documents).
    2) Use the terminal to cd into the directory `cd Documents/FSND-Virtual-Machine`
    3) Run the command `vagrant up` to start your Virtual Machine.
    4) Wait for a while :) -- this will take some time since it is installing 
    an entire computer on your computer. Think about that! (\**mind explodes**)
    5) Once completed, your shell will return the prompt you are used to
    seeing. From here, you can log in to your new computer by typing
    `vagrant ssh` into the shell.
    6) Run the command `cd /vagrant`

4. <a href="https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2016/August/57b5f748_newsdata/newsdata.zip">News Data SQL (download here)</a>
- This will download the newsdatabase.sql file, which will create the
database the program will run against. The database will be discuss more
below, but for now, let's just get it ready.
- Instructions: 
    1) After unzipping the the download, move newsdatabase.sql to your
    vagrant directory. Ex. Documents/FSND-Virtual-Machine/vagrant
    2) Run the command `psql -d news -f newsdata.sql`
    
5. <a href="/create_views.sql">Create Views (download here)</a>
- This will download the create_views.sql file, which will create the views
needed for the application's database queries.
- Instructions:
    1) Just like before, unzip the download and move create_views.sql to
    your vagrant direction. Ex. Documents/FSND-Virtual-Machine/vagrant
    2) Run the command `psql -d news -f create_views.sql`

## Running the Application

1. Start the application from the command line `python3 log_analysis.py`
2. The application will print a menu. Enter the number of the question you
would like to answer and press Enter.
3. The result output will display once the query completes! Easy :)
4. Press 0 and Enter to quit at any time.

## The News Database

## Advanced Usage

Note: This log analysis tools relies on a few Views. You can recreate, retool,
or refactor these views easily. Find the views created below.

1. `CREATE VIEW author_article AS SELECT name, slug FROM authors, articles 
WHERE authors.id = articles.author;`

2. `CREATE VIEW view_errors AS SELECT date_trunc('day', log.time) AS day, COUNT(*) 
FROM log WHERE status = '404 NOT FOUND' GROUP BY day;`

3. `CREATE VIEW view_total AS SELECT date_trunc('day', log.time) AS day, COUNT(*) 
FROM log GROUP BY day;`

4. `CREATE VIEW error_percentage AS SELECT view_total.day, 
(view_errors.count::decimal / view_total.count) * 100 AS percentage 
FROM view_total, view_errors WHERE view_total.day = view_errors.day;`
